# Tutorial: Build a streaming data pipeline in AWS

Streaming Data is data that is generated continuously by thousands of data sources, which typically send in the data records simultaneously, and in small sizes (order of Kilobytes). Streaming data includes a wide variety of data such as log files generated by customers using your mobile or web applications, ecommerce purchases, in-game player activity, information from social networks, financial trading floors, or geospatial services, and telemetry from connected devices or instrumentation in data centers.

### 1. Key AWS Services for building a Streaming Data Pipeline

To start with, AWS provides some powerful offering to ingest, process and deliver streaming data. The most popular 
AWS managed service is [Kinesis](https://aws.amazon.com/kinesis/).

Kinesis is comprised of four main components:  

I. [**Kinesis Data Streams**](https://aws.amazon.com/kinesis/data-streams/): Kinesis streams can continuously capture gigabytes of data per second from hundreds of thousands of sources.
The main component of a Kinesis data stream is a **shard**. A shard is a uniquely identified sequence of data records in a stream. A stream is composed of one or more shards, each of which provides a fixed unit of capacity.
Inorder to build your first, Kinesis Stream:

   1. Log into the AWS console, and search for Kinesis amongst the applications. It can be found under the 'Analytics' section. 
   2. Under Kinesis data streams, click on '**Create data stream**'
   3. Name your first Kinesis stream (please provide some meaningful name)
   4. Add the number of shards required in the bottom section of the page as shown below: 